Now, let's also dive in to the remaining piece and that is of course storing recipes on a server
and for that, I want to add a new effect, store recipes, which also gets the @effect decorator
and here, we again listen to our actions observable stream and use ofType to react only to certain types
of actions and we need to add a new action for this and that will be our store recipes
action which gets this identifier here,
store recipes, like this.
Let's export a class here as well,
store recipes which implements action,
this has a readonly type of store recipes and we don't need to pass the recipes along because they're
already part of our NgRx store.
I'll add this to the union type even though we're not going to use this action in a reducer but we
are going to use it here in recipe effects.
So here, let's now wait for recipes actions store recipes and thereafter, I'll add a good old switchMap
here as we did before too, not interested in any data about my action because it doesn't have a payload
which I would need.
Indeed what I want to do here though is I want to run the code which we currently run in here, in store
recipes in the data storage service.
Let's grab that and add it here to switchMap, return this here and run our put request here.
Now the thing is of course, there I now need my recipes which are in my store,
that is the question, how do we get the recipes from the store?
Well, the good thing is, it's relatively easy,
we can use a special operator with latest from which is also imported from rxjs/operators
and that allows us to merge a value from another observable into this observable stream here and there,
I now want to access my store which means I have to inject it here,
so my store is injected. For that
I want to import the structure of the store from my root reducer,
so from app, from store app reducer and assign that generic type down there, fromApp.AppState like this
and now with the store injected, we also need to import it. Import wasn't added automatically here, so
let's do it manually, let's import store from @ngrx/store.
So now with the store injected successfully, here on with latest from, we can use this store
select the recipes slice and in switchMap, we now actually get an array as our argument automatically,
RxJS gives us this array which holds the data provided by ofType which is our action data which
I'm not interested about but also the data from with latest from and that will be our recipes
state. Now that gets passed into our function here,
now I'm using a syntax called array destructuring here in case you're wondering,
this simply means that I use square brackets here in the argument list and I store the two elements
that this array will have in variables, that I can now use inside of switchMap,
of course you could also accept one argument because you get one argument after all but that argument
is an array where the second element is the data from with the latest from and the first element is your
action
and I'm just using array destructuring. With that I have access to my recipes state and on my recipes
state, I can access the recipes of course. That should already be it,
this allows us to send the request, here
I'm also not really interested in dispatching anything thereafter because I don't need to know once
this is done in this application, so we can set dispatch to false here so that NgRx effects knows that
this won't dispatch anything and now we can go to the header component again and in the header component,
in onSaveData, we can now use this store dispatch new recipe actions and there I have my store recipes
action. With that, we can also remove the data storage and the auth service from this file, remove their imports
here and remove the entire data storage service file,
we don't need that anymore. Let's save all files now and let's give this a try. The app reloads,
let's go to recipes here,
let's maybe edit this recipe and let's edit the schnitzel as well by adding a couple of exclamation
marks each and then hit save data
and now let's try reloading and the changes are still there
which means they were saved on the backend. And that is it,
that now means that our entire logic was restructured such that we indeed use NgRx only in this application.